README.md, before:

# gitprompt-rs

A very simple Git prompt written in Rust

## Usage

Just add `$(gitprompt-rs)` to your shell prompt. Make sure you use single quotes
`'` or escape the `$` to prevent early expansion.
Zsh additionally requires `setopt promptsubst` to make this work.

You most likely want to let your shell know that the color escape sequences are
not actually visible so it will calculate the length correctly. Pass `bash` for
Bash or `zsh` for Zsh.
This is not required for fish.

The prompt looks like this: `(master↑4↓7|+2~3-5x6•8)`. The information on
display is as follows:
- Branch info:
  - `master`: name of the current branch, `:HEAD` in detached head mode
  - `↑`: number of commits ahead of remote
  - `↓`: number of commits behind remote
- Work area:
  - `+`: untracked (new) files
  - `~`: modified files
  - `-`: deleted files
  - `x`: merge conflicts
- `•`: staged changes

## Installation

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/gitprompt-rs.svg)](https://repology.org/project/gitprompt-rs/versions)

- Manual: Make sure you have a recent Rust toolchain. Clone this repo, then run
  `cargo install --path .`.
- [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/gitprompt-rs):
  `cargo install gitprompt-rs`
- Nix (with flakes):
  `nix run github:9ary/gitprompt-rs`
  The flake exports an overlay which is the recommended way to consume git HEAD.

Commit message:

Allow overriding untracked file counting

README.md, after:

# gitprompt-rs

A very simple Git prompt written in Rust

## Usage

Just add `$(gitprompt-rs)` to your shell prompt. Make sure you use single quotes
`'` or escape the `$` to prevent early expansion.
Zsh additionally requires `setopt promptsubst` to make this work.

You most likely want to let your shell know that the color escape sequences are
not actually visible so it will calculate the length correctly. Pass `bash` for
Bash or `zsh` for Zsh.
This is not required for fish.

The prompt looks like this: `(master↑4↓7|+2~3-5x6•8)`. The information on
display is as follows:
- Branch info:
  - `master`: name of the current branch, `:HEAD` in detached head mode
  - `↑`: number of commits ahead of remote
  - `↓`: number of commits behind remote
- Work area:
  - `+`: untracked (new) files
  - `~`: modified files
  - `-`: deleted files
  - `x`: merge conflicts
- `•`: staged changes

> [!TIP]
> `git status` can be pretty slow on large repositories. By default,
> gitprompt-rs forces scanning for *all* untracked files. This can be overridden
> globally by setting the Git option `gitprompt-rs.showUntrackedFiles`, which
> accepts the same values as `status.showUntrackedFiles`, for a huge speedup
> (475ms -> 45ms in nixpkgs on my machine).

## Installation

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/gitprompt-rs.svg)](https://repology.org/project/gitprompt-rs/versions)

- Manual: Make sure you have a recent Rust toolchain. Clone this repo, then run
  `cargo install --path .`.
- [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/gitprompt-rs):
  `cargo install gitprompt-rs`
- Nix (with flakes):
  `nix run github:9ary/gitprompt-rs`
  The flake exports an overlay which is the recommended way to consume git HEAD.
